= HP Cloud Extensions to Ruby Fog Library

HP provides a native Ruby library through an HP Cloud developed extension to the Ruby Fog provider. By using
the HP Cloud Ruby library, developers can write applications using Ruby that interacts with the
HP Cloud Services without having to deal with the underlying REST API or XML document formats.

== Background

This library is an extension of Fog[https://github.com/fog/fog], a Ruby open-source cloud
computing library.

Because the details of the HP Cloud Services are not formally announced, we are maintaining a
running branch of the Fog library that contains all HP-specific support. When our formal
product announcement comes and the services become publicly available, we intend to return our
contributions to the primary open-source library.

The HP Cloud Ruby library currently supports HP Cloud Object Storage and HP Cloud Compute, and
support for other services will be added as available.

== Installation

1) Start by installing the software the HP Cloud Services Ruby Fog library depends on:

* {Ruby 1.9.2 or Ruby 1.8.7}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/]
* {RubyGems 1.3.7 or later}[http://docs.rubygems.org/read/chapter/3]

2) {Download the HP Cloud Services Ruby Fog gem}[/downloads/hpfog.tar] and unpack it to a local directory.

3) cd into the directory you downloaded the gem into during Step 2) and type:

  gem install hpfog-<version>.gem

where &lt;version&gt; is the version number of the downloaded and unpacked file, for example 0.0.7

That's it! Try out the usage examples explained below to confirm your installation.

If you should ever need to remove the library:

    gem uninstall hpfog


== Usage

The Ruby Fog library is well documented on the community web site, but for specific examples
using HP's extensions, see:

* {HP Cloud Fog library - Object Storage Examples}[http://build.hpcloud.com/bindings/fog/object-storage]
* {HP Cloud Fog library - Compute Examples}[http://build.hpcloud.com/bindings/fog/compute]




