= HP Cloud Extensions to Ruby Fog Library

HP contributed to the native Ruby library Fog, through an HP Cloud developed extension to Fog via
the Object Storage, Compute and CDN providers. By using the HP Cloud Extensions to Fog, developers
can write applications using Ruby that interacts with the HP Cloud Services without having to deal
with the underlying REST API or JSON/XML document formats.

== Background

This library is an extension of Fog[https://github.com/fog/fog], a Ruby open-source cloud
computing library. The code in this library, contains all HP-specific support and is being
contributed back to the primary open-source library.

The HP Cloud Ruby library currently supports HP Cloud Object Storage, Compute, CDN, and
support for other services will be added as available.

== Installation

  sudo gem install fog

That's it! Try out the usage examples explained below to confirm your installation.

If you should ever need to remove the library:

  sudo gem uninstall fog

== Usage

The Ruby Fog library is well documented on the community web site at {fog.io}[http://fog.io], but for specific examples
using HP's extensions, see:

* {HP Cloud Fog library - Object Storage Examples}[https://build.hpcloud.com/bindings/fog/object-storage]
* {HP Cloud Fog library - Compute Examples}[https://build.hpcloud.com/bindings/fog/compute]
* {HP Cloud Fog library - CDN Examples}[https://build.hpcloud.com/bindings/fog/cdn]

Having trouble? {Get help over at the Forums}[https://connect.hpcloud.com]

== Notice

The following notice applies to files included in the /lib/fog/hp directory and its sub-directories.

Copyright (c) 2011 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software
and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or
substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


